### Mars in relation to the Earth

I just made some connection between Earth and planetary science to seek to understand the Earth and other planets through observation. Future exploration offers new opportunities to learn about planetary origins and evolution. This degree focuses on geological and geophysical processes in the Solar System.Our Ancient astronomers discovered planents without any technology so by that fundamental law,if we observe our planet actions and other scientic data analysis we can get grasp in Mars planet.This is my thesis and it goes like this ..

Today, the Earth’s sister planet Mars is very different from our home, but perhaps this was not always the case. Mars was once very similar to the Earth. Perhaps there was once life on Mars. Mars and the Earth are very different planets. Mars is smaller, covered by ice and dust and further away from the Sun than the Earth. Its surface temperature currently ranges from 20 degrees during the day to -140 degrees at night, and the planet is a sterile and hostile environment without water or an atmosphere. At the same time, the planet has no internal magnetic field to protect its surface against harmful particles from space. But this has not always been the case.

Key factor in Mars’ development is its current lack of atmosphere. The fact that Mars does not have any atmosphere to speak of means that the surface pressure is so low that liquid water cannot exist on the planet surface. Scientists have also found evidence of atmospheric particles accelerating away from Mars and being blown out into space, which means that any water particles in Mars’ atmosphere can be carried away from the surface by the solar wind and out into the Solar System at a speed in excess of 400 km/s.

So this is to make aware that we can explore other planets by observing Earth's structure, properties, processes, and four and a half billion years of biotic evolution.  Understanding these phenomena is essential to maintenance of life on the planet.  The expanding world population demands more resources; faces increasing losses from natural hazards; and releases more pollutants to the air, water, and land.   Sustaining our existence requires scientific understanding of the natural materials and processes linking the geosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere, and biosphere.  Life prospers or fails at the surface of the Earth where these environments intersect. 

Using my thesis also they discovered other exciting news which is , that NASA’s Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS) has discovered its first Earth-size planet in its star’s habitable zone, the range of distances where conditions may be just right to allow the presence of liquid water on the surface. Scientists confirmed the find, called TOI 700 d, using NASA’s Spitzer Space Telescope and have modeled the planet’s potential environments to help inform future observations. 
 
  ### So everything is realated to Our planet Earth and may also we have a frenemies in other exoplanets,we should take care of our Earth .
